.TH PACKETWYRM-PROXYD 8 "2026-07-09" "PacketWyrm" "PacketWyrm Manual"
.SH NAME
packetwyrm-proxyd \- PacketWyrm Web GUI / remote-RPC gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B packetwyrm-proxyd
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B packetwyrm-proxyd
is a TLS-terminating relay in front of the
.BR packetwyrmd (8)
control socket. It serves the embedded Web GUI and relays
.B POST /api/rpc
requests to the daemon's Unix control socket. The daemon remains the sole
authority for the access secret, which the gateway forwards verbatim.
.PP
The gateway holds no hardware and runs unprivileged (as the
.B packetwyrm
user/group), reaching the daemon socket through its group membership.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -c ", " --config " \fIFILE\fR"
Read options from a config file (one \fIkey: value\fR per line; \fB#\fR
comments and blank lines ignored; keys: \fBlisten\fR, \fBsocket\fR,
\fBtls_cert\fR, \fBtls_key\fR, \fBno_tls\fR, \fBinsecure_no_auth\fR,
\fBallowed_hosts\fR). Any CLI flag below overrides the corresponding file value.
The packaged unit runs \fB--config /etc/packetwyrm/proxyd.yaml\fR, so edit that
file and restart the service rather than passing flags.
.TP
.BI --listen " ADDR:PORT"
Bind address (default \fI0.0.0.0:8443\fR). The shipped
\fI/etc/packetwyrm/proxyd.yaml\fR sets \fI127.0.0.1:8443\fR so a fresh install
starts cleanly.
.TP
.BI --socket " PATH"
Daemon control socket (default \fI/run/packetwyrm/packetwyrmd.sock\fR).
.TP
.BI --tls-cert " FILE"
TLS certificate (PEM); default self-signed.
.TP
.BI --tls-key " FILE"
TLS private key (PEM).
.TP
.B --no-tls
Serve plain HTTP (localhost / SSH tunnel only).
.TP
.B --insecure-no-auth
Allow a non-loopback bind even if the daemon has no secret configured.
.TP
.BI --allowed-host " NAME[,NAME...]"
Additional Host header values accepted on \fBPOST /api/rpc\fR (anti
DNS-rebinding). localhost, 127.0.0.1, [::1] and the \fB--listen\fR address are
always accepted.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show the help text.
.SH SECURITY
A public (0.0.0.0) bind fail-closes unless
.B system.secret
is set in the env config. To expose the GUI, set the secret and change
.B --listen
to
.I 0.0.0.0:8443
deliberately, then firewall it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR packetwyrmd (8),
.BR pktwyrm (1)
