.TH PACKETWYRMD 8 "2026-07-09" "PacketWyrm" "PacketWyrm Manual"
.SH NAME
packetwyrmd \- PacketWyrm tester daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B packetwyrmd
.RB [ \-e
.IR ENV ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR TEST ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR INTERVAL_MS ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR SERVO_MS ]
.RB [ \-C
.IR CAL_TICKS ]
.RB [ \-p
.RI [ ADDR :] PORT ]
.RB [ \-F ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B packetwyrmd
is the PacketWyrm tester daemon. It opens the FPGA card backend(s), runs the
per-card host-plane workers, and serves a JSON-RPC control socket that
.BR pktwyrm (1)
and the Web GUI gateway
.BR packetwyrm-proxyd (8)
connect to.
.PP
It reads an environment config (system / cards / logical_interfaces / secret)
and, optionally, a test config (flows / forwards) attached onto it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " ENV"
Environment config: system/cards/logical_interfaces/secret
(default \fI/etc/packetwyrm/packetwyrm.yaml\fR; may also carry flows for a
combined single-file setup).
.B \-c
is an alias.
.TP
.BI \-t " TEST"
Test config: flows/forwards, attached onto the env.
.TP
.B \-n
Dry run: parse + validate + compile, then exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
.TP
.BI \-s " INTERVAL_MS"
Stats print interval (default 5000, 0 = off).
.TP
.BI \-S " SERVO_MS"
Cross-card lat_correction servo period (default 10; smaller = less ppm-skew
residual between updates \(em 1.6 ppm x period; 10 ms ~= 16 ns, 1 ms ~= 1.6 ns.
The J5 edge updates every ~210 us so below that is moot).
.TP
.BI \-C " CAL_TICKS"
Cross-card one-way latency calibration (signed ticks, 6.4 ns each; default 0).
Added to the servo correction antisymmetrically by card-id order
(tx<rx:+, tx>rx:-) to cancel the direction-asymmetric TX/RX capture bias so both
directions read the true one-way latency. Set to ~half the measured
inter-direction gap (2-card rig).
.TP
.BI \-p " [ADDR:]PORT"
Bind a Prometheus \fI/metrics\fR exporter; ADDR defaults to 127.0.0.1
(loopback). Use \fI0.0.0.0:PORT\fR to expose it on all interfaces
(unauthenticated \(em opt in deliberately). 0/unset leaves it disabled.
.TP
.B \-F
Allow falling back to the no-op fake backend when a card's BAR cannot be opened
(dev/CI; default: error).
.SH CAPABILITIES
The daemon runs as root and needs the full root capability set: it mmaps the
FPGA PCI BAR (CAP_SYS_RAWIO), reads/writes PCI config and power sysfs
(CAP_SYS_ADMIN), creates TAP devices (CAP_NET_ADMIN), and drives VFIO. Do not
clamp the CapabilityBoundingSet in the systemd unit.
.SH METRICS
When \fB\-p\fR is given, an unauthenticated Prometheus text exporter is served on
\fI/metrics\fR. Exported series include
.BR packetwyrm_build_info ,
.BR packetwyrm_card_open ,
.BR packetwyrm_punt_to_tap_ok ,
.BR packetwyrm_punt_to_tap_dropped ,
.BR packetwyrm_tap_to_fpga_ok ,
.BR packetwyrm_tap_to_fpga_dropped ,
and
.BR packetwyrm_punt_unknown_lif .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/packetwyrm/packetwyrm.yaml
Default environment config.
.TP
.I /run/packetwyrm/packetwyrmd.sock
Control socket (0660 root:packetwyrm in production).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pktwyrm (1),
.BR packetwyrm-proxyd (8)
.SH NOTES
The packaged systemd unit starts the daemon with the management plane up but does
.B not
generate traffic until an explicit
.B test start
(via
.BR pktwyrm (1)).
The unit is installed disabled; enable it with
.BR "systemctl enable --now packetwyrm" .
