.TH PKTWYRM 1 "2026-07-09" "PacketWyrm" "PacketWyrm Manual"
.SH NAME
pktwyrm \- PacketWyrm command-line client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pktwyrm
.I VERB
.RI [ ARGS ]
.RI [ "GLOBAL FLAGS" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pktwyrm
is the command-line client for PacketWyrm. It has two classes of verbs:
offline verbs that operate on a YAML configuration file, and online verbs
that talk to a running
.BR packetwyrmd (8)
daemon over a Unix control socket (or, with
.BR --host ,
to a remote
.BR packetwyrm-proxyd (8)
over HTTPS).
.SH OFFLINE COMMANDS
Operate on a YAML file; no running daemon required.
.TP
.B init \fR[\fB--out \fIFILE\fR]
Generate an environment-config skeleton with the PCI BDFs of the discovered
cards filled in. Writes to stdout, or to \fIFILE\fR with \fB--out\fR.
.TP
.B cards
Discover real PacketWyrm PCI cards on the host.
.TP
.B cards \fICONFIG.yaml\fR
List the cards configured in a YAML file.
.TP
.B ports \fICONFIG.yaml\fR
List the ports configured in a YAML file.
.TP
.B map \fICONFIG.yaml\fR
Show the port \(-> logical-interface map.
.TP
.B load \fICONFIG.yaml\fR \fR[\fB--socket \fIPATH\fR] [\fB--check\fR]
Load a configuration into the running daemon (\fBconfig.load\fR). Deploys to the
default control socket unless \fB--socket\fR (or the global \fB--host\fR)
overrides it. \fB--check\fR (alias \fB-n\fR) validates + compiles the file
offline and exits WITHOUT deploying. If the daemon is unreachable the error
names the reason (not running / wrong path / permission).
.TP
.B flow show \fICONFIG.yaml\fR
List the flows defined in a YAML file.
.TP
.B flow preview \fICONFIG.yaml\fR \fR[\fB--flow \fIID\fR] [\fB--seq \fIN\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
Decode + hex-dump the on-wire frame the generator emits for a flow (offline;
Ethernet/VLAN/[encap]/IP/L4/test-header). Shows packet \fIN\fR (default 0); the
departure timestamp is HW-stamped at egress (shown 0) and the L4 checksum is
computed for that frame.
.TP
.B version
Print the client version.
.SH ONLINE COMMANDS
Talk to a running
.B packetwyrmd
over a Unix socket (or remote gateway with
.BR --host ).
.TP
.B rpc version
Query the daemon version.
.TP
.B rpc cards|ports|flows|stats
Raw RPC query. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR and \fB--card\fR \fIN\fR.
.TP
.B stats
Live port/flow statistics. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB--card\fR \fIN\fR,
\fB--watch\fR \fIMS\fR, \fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B latency
Per-flow one-way latency (same-card: exact; cross-card: J5 GPIO-corrected).
Accepts \fB--flow\fR \fIN\fR, \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B sfp
SFP identifier + DOM. Accepts \fB--card\fR \fIN\fR, \fB--port\fR \fIP\fR,
\fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B tap
Host-plane TAP status + stats. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B flow start|stop \fIID\fR
Start or stop a single flow. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR.
.TP
.B flow stats
Per-flow statistics. Accepts \fB--flow\fR \fIN\fR, \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR,
\fB--watch\fR \fIMS\fR, \fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B test arm|start|stop
Arm, start or stop the test. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB--json\fR.
Note the daemon programs flows idle: nothing is transmitted until
.BR "test start" .
.TP
.B test run \fR[\fB--duration \fIT\fR]
Run one measurement: arm, start, wait \fIT\fR (default 10s; accepts s/ms/m),
stop, and print a per-flow PASS/FAIL table. Exit 0 on PASS, 1 on FAIL, 2 on
error \(em suitable for CI. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B hist latency --flow \fIN\fR
Print the per-flow latency histogram. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR,
\fB--json\fR.
.TP
.B load \fICONFIG.yaml\fR
Load a test config into the running daemon. Accepts \fB--socket\fR \fIPATH\fR.
.SH FIRMWARE
.TP
.B firmware update \fIFILE.bin\fR \fB--card \fIBDF\fR \fR[\fB--boot\fR] [\fB--scratch\fR]
Local, direct-card bitstream update (needs root; the card must be free of a
running daemon). Validates the image, live-writes the config flash over PCIe,
verifies, and \(em with \fB--boot\fR \(em triggers an ICAP reload + PCIe rescan
and confirms the build_id changed. Writes the boot image (offset 0) by default;
\fB--scratch\fR targets the 0xE00000 dev region instead (incompatible with
\fB--boot\fR).
.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
These may appear anywhere on the command line.
.TP
.B --secret \fIS\fR
Control-socket secret. If unset, falls back to \fB$PACKETWYRM_SECRET\fR, then to
the secret read from the \fB--env\fR file.
.TP
.B --env \fIPATH\fR
Env config to read the secret from
(default \fI/etc/packetwyrm/packetwyrm.yaml\fR).
.TP
.B --host \fIH\fR[:\fIP\fR]
Talk to a remote
.B packetwyrm-proxyd
over HTTPS (default port 8443) instead of the local Unix socket;
.B --socket
is then ignored.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/packetwyrm/packetwyrm.yaml
Default environment config (source of the control-socket secret).
.TP
.I /run/packetwyrm/packetwyrmd.sock
Default daemon control socket.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR packetwyrmd (8),
.BR packetwyrm-proxyd (8)
